# NutrinO-RAG - A Personal Food Assistant
<center><h2>Project Title : A Personal Chatbot for Food Guidance </h2></center>

## 🚀 Demo






## Overview
NutrinO-RAG is a personal chatbot used to give food guidance with the help of Large Language Models and Retrieval-Augmented Generation. The chatbot helps users find nutritional information about various food items and generates personalized diet plans based on specific conditions, such as health problems or regional preferences. It integrates a comprehensive dataset of food items, extracted using Gemini AI, and offers clear, concise responses generated by GPT-4 to enhance user experience.

## 🧐 Features
- **Nutritional Information**: Obtain the right nutritional values to specific foods. 
- **Personalized Diet Plans**: Enter your health status or about the area where you live or any issues with access to food, and you will get your diet plan for the tenure you mentioned. 
- **Region-Based Suggestions**: Targeted food recommendations according to the availability of certain foods in specific region in addition to the user ability to access certain foods. 
- **Conversational Clarity**: Uses GPT-4 to present information in an easy-to-understand manner. 

# Flow Diagram 🔄📊


## Necessary Libraries




## Contributing 🤝
  Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit bug reports, feature requests, or pull requests to help improve this project. 

## 🛠️ Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/SaiNivedh26/Team-Nooglers
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd Team-Nooglers
```

Install dependencies

```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Start the server

```bash
  npm run start
```
# How We Built It 🛠️👷‍♂️
- **LLMs Integration:**
  - Developed using a combination of LLMs like GPT-4 and Gemini AI.
  - Utilized for data extraction and content generation.

- **RAG Utilization:**
  - Used Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to embed and retrieve relevant information from our custom-built dataset.
  - Ensured precise and relevant responses to user queries.

- **System Architecture:**
  - Backend processing is handled using Python.
  - Flask is used for serving the chatbot interface.
  - Front-end interaction is managed through simple APIs.
  - The architecture is designed to be scalable and easy to integrate.

# Model performance 🕝 ⚡


## Authors

- [@Sai Nivedh V](https://github.com/SaiNivedh26)
- [@Baranidharan S](https://github.com/thespectacular314)
- [@Roshan T](https://github.com/Twinn-github09)
- [@Hari Heman](https://github.com/MAD-MAN-HEMAN)



## 🛡️License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

